In this exercise, you've just received
new threat intelligence that Holly is associated with a group called Leviathan.
You're using this along with information from
previous exercises to create a Mac threat profile.
Now with everything you know from those exercises and this new tip,
you can start pulling together a threat profile.
If we focus on the intentional threat in this case, Holly,
you'd want to think through each element of the cyber prep framework with her in mind.
The first thing you should do is research the group Leviathan.
You'll find tons of information that can help you populate
the threat profile along with what you already know.
The MITRE ATT&CK group's site is a great resource for that.
If you haven't looked at it already,
take a quick look there as a starting point.
Now, when it comes to intent,
Holly's goal appears to be fraud or theft.
However, when you look into Leviathan you learn it's an espionage group.
So she may be up to something else on behalf of the organization.
The consequences in this case could be financial impact or
loss of intellectual property if the attack is successful, but there could be more.
There could be reputation impact if it gets publicized, for example.
Also if Holly is stealing login credentials,
she maybe trying to log in and out of the systems over time.
Again, based on the image and the Intel you have,
there may not be a definitive answer for everything,
but you can start to hypothesize and do the research.
Now regarding targets, since the threat group she's associated
with seems to have a greater Maritime related mission.
It's worth exploring if you have any partners or vendors,
they may use you as a stepping stone to target.
Lastly, when it comes to capabilities,
you can include from looking into the threat group.
They are state-sponsored and backed by China.
So they may have tons of resources at their disposal.
The common attack tactics include spear phishing,
backdoors, credential theft, and more.
The bottom line here to remember is that when threat profiling,
again, you may not have all the answers and that's okay.
That's the reality.
You gather as much information as you can to drive your decisions.
A bottom line to remember is that when threat profiling,
you may not have all of the answers and that's okay.
That's the reality.
Gather as much information as you can to help drive your decisions.